hey this is pressed Elle Walker I
received this question from Tim in
Singapore it was given to ten year olds
who had not yet studied algebra I
slightly edited the problem for clarity
the total amount of sand contained in
boxes a B and C is 360 grams each box
starts with some unknown amount of sand
and a mathematician decides to play with
the sand first the mathematician pours
one-sixth of the sand for box a into box
B after that the mathematician pours 1/3
of the sand in Box B into box C finally
the mathematician pours 1/5 of the sand
in box C into box a at the end each box
has an equal amount of sand how much
sand did each box have at the beginning
now remember this was given to
ten-year-olds who had not yet studied
algebra so you should try to solve this
problem without using a system of
simultaneous equations can you figure it
out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution so the way I solve this
problem is to work backwards we'll
create a table with the amounts in each
box and we'll let the amounts be in
grams so we can drop the units and just
focus on the numbers so by working
backwards that means to start at the
very end how much sand is in each box at
the very end the problem tells us each
box has an equal amount of sand at the
end and the total amount of sand is 360
grams so at the very end each box has
360 divided by 3 which is 120 grams so
we can fill in these amounts in the
table now let's go one step backwards
how much is in each box before the step
or by
see gets poured into box a well the
mathematician pours 1/5 of box C into
box a so if box C minus 1/5 of itself
equals 120 then box C must have had 120
times 5/4 which equals 150 before the
sand was poured out we can see this by a
little bit of algebra if we have box C
times 1 minus 1/5 that's equal to 120
that means box C times 4/5 is equal to
120 so we take the reciprocal of 4/5
which will be 5/4 therefore Boxey
started with 120 times 5/4 which equals
150 so we can say that box C had 150 now
since 150 minus 120 is equal to 30
that's how much was poured from C to a
we can deduce box a must have had 30
fewer grams before this step 120 minus
30 which equals Dyne d furthermore
pouring from box C to box a leaves box
be unaffected so box B remained at 120
now let's go one more step backwards
what happened before box B was poured
into box see if box B minus 1/3 of
itself equals 120 then box B had 120
times 3 halves which equals 180 before
this step furthermore since this step
transferred 60 grams from B to C we know
that box C had 60 fewer grams or 150
minus 60 which equals 90 before the step
and box a was unaffected in the step so
it remained at 90 now we go back to the
beginning what happened before box a was
poured into box B well if box a minus
1/6 of itself equals 90 then box a had
90 times 6 fifths which equals 108
before the sanli sport
out furthermore we see that 18 grams was
transferred from A to B therefore box B
must have started with 180 minus 18
which equals 162 Boxee was unaffected in
this episode remained at 90 and there
you go
these are the starting amounts bucks a
had 108 Box B had 162 and box C had 90
grams so it's a fairly challenging
problem to ask of ten-year-olds but it
can be solved with logical
considerations and by working backwards
did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions if you like this video
you can check out my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can support me on patreon if you have a
math topic you can email me presh at
mind your decisions calm and you can
catch me on social media either at mind
your decisions or a pressure Locker